I have to ask about April, 2012, when, uh, Instagram,
along with his massive employee base of 13,
people was sold to Facebook for $1 billion.
What was the process like on a business level engineering level, human level?
What was that process of selling to Facebook? Like what did it feel?
So I want to provide some context, which is,
I worked in corporate development at Google, um, which not a lot of people know,
but corporate development is effectively the group that buys companies, right.
You sit there and you acquire companies.
And I had sat through so many of these meetings with entrepreneurs.
We actually fun fact,
we never acquired a single company when I worked in corporate development.
So I can't claim that, um, I had like a lot of experience, um,
but I had enough experience to understand, okay,
like what prices are people getting? And what's the process. And,
and as we started to grow, you know,
we were trying to keep this thing running and we were exhausted and we're 13
people. And I mean, we were trying to think back,
it was probably 27, 37 now. Um,
so young and w on a relative basis. Right.
And, uh, we're trying to keep the thing running. And then, you know,
we go out to raise money and we're kind of like the hot startup at the
time. And I remember going into a specific VC and saying our terms,
we're looking for, we're looking for a $500 million valuation,
and I've never seen so many jobs drop all in unison. Right.
And I was like thanked and walked out the door very kindly after. Um,
and then I got a call the next day, uh,
from someone who was connected to them and said, they said,
we just want to let you know that, like, uh,
it was pretty offensive that you asked for $500 billion valuation.
I can't tell if that was, um,
like just negotiating or what, but it's true. Like no one offered us more.
Right. So can you clarify.
The, the number again? He said, how many million? 550.
100 Million. 500 million. Half a billion. Yeah. Um, so in my mind,
I'm anchored like, okay, well literally,
no one's biting at 500 million and eventually we would get Sequoia and
Greylock and others together at 500 million basically, uh, post, uh,
it was 450 pre I think we raised $50 million,
but just like no one was used to seeing a $500 million companies then, like,
I don't know if it was because we were just coming out of the hangover 2008 and
things were still on recovery, um, mode. Uh,
but then along comes Facebook and after some
negotiation,
we've two X the number from half a billion to a billion. Good.
It seems pretty good, you know? And, uh,
I think mark and I really saw eye to eye that this thing could be big. Um,
we thought could their resources would help us scale it. And in a lot of ways,
it de-risks. I mean,
it's a reason a lot of the employees lives for the rest of their lives,
including me, including Mike. Right. Um,
think I might've had like 10 grand in my bank account at the time. Right?
Like we're working hard. We had nothing. Um, so on a relative basis,
that seems very high.
And then I think the last company to exit for anywhere close to a billion was
YouTube that I could think of. And, uh,
and thus began the giant long bull run of 2012 to the way all the way
to where we are now, where, um,
I saw some stat yesterday about like how many unicorns exist and it's absurd,
but then again,
never underestimate technology and like the value it can provide and man costs
have dropped and man scale has increased and you can make businesses make a
lot of money now, but on a, on a fundamental level, I don't know,
like how do you describe the decision to sell a company with 13
people for a billion dollars?
Like how did it take a lot of guts to set a table and say
500 million or 1 billion with mark Zuckerberg?
It seems like a very large number with 13. Like, especially.
Like, it doesn't seem, it is, it is all large.
Especially like you said before the unicorn
parade.
I like that. I'm going to use that, right? Yeah. The, uh, the, the,
the head of the unicorn parade, it's the, uh, yeah,
it's a massive unicorn parade. Um, okay. So,
no, I mean, we knew we were worth quote-unquote a lot, but we didn't. I mean,
there was no market for Instagram. I mean, it's not, you could mark you,
couldn't mark to market this thing in the public markets.
You didn't quite understand what it would be worth or was worth at the time.
So in a market,
an illiquid market where you have one buyer and one seller and you're going back
and forth, and, well,
I guess there were like VC firms who were willing to, you know,
invest at a certain valuation. So I don't know,
you just go with your gut. And, uh, and at the end of the day, I would say, um,
the hardest part of it was not realizing,
uh,
like when we sold it was tough because like literally everywhere I go
restaurants, whatever, like for a good six months after,
it was a lot of attention on the deal. A lot of attention on the product,
a lot of attention, it was kind of miserable. Right. And you're like, wait,
like I made a lot of money, but like, why is this not great?
And it's because it turns out, you know, and I don't, I don't know, like,
I don't really keep in touch with mark,
but I've got to assume his job right now is not exactly the most happy job in
the world. It's really tough when you're on top.
And it's really tough when you're in the limelight.
So the decision itself was like, oh, cool. This is great. How lucky are we?
Right.
So, okay. There's a million questions I want to ask. First of all, first of all,
why,
why is it hard to be on top of why did you not feel good? Like, can,
can you dig into that? It always, um,
I've heard like Olympic athletes say, after they win gold, they,
they get depressed.
Is it something like that where it feels like it was kind
of like a thing you were working towards some,
some loose definition of success and this sure site feels like, uh,
at least according to other startups, this is what success looks like.
And now why don't I feel any better? I'm still human.
I still all the same problems. Is that the nature?
Or is it just like negative attention of some kind? What?
I think it's all of the above. Um, but to be clear,
there was a lot of happiness in terms of like, oh my God, this is great. Like,
we like won the super bowl of startups. Right. Um,
anyone who can get to a liquidity event of anything meaningful
feels like, wow, this is what we started out to do. Of course,
we want to create great things that people love. But, um,
like we won in a big way, but yeah, there's this big like, oh, if we won,
what is like, what's next? I don't. So they call it the,
we have arrived syndrome, um,
which I need to go back and look where I can quote that from.
But I remember reading about it at the time. And I was like, oh yeah,
that's that?
And I remember we had a product manager leave very early on when we got to
Facebook. And he said to me, um,
I just don't believe I can learn anything at this company anymore. It's like,
it's hit its apex. We sold it. Great.
I just don't have anything else to learn. So from 2012,
all the way to the day I left in 2018,
like the amount I learned and the humility with which I realized, oh,
we thought we, $1 billion is cool, but like,
there are a hundred billion dollar companies. And by the way, on top of that,
we had no revenue. We had, I mean, we had a cool product,
but we didn't scale it yet. And there's so much to learn. And then competitors.
And how fun was it to fight Snapchat? Oh my God. Like it was,
it's like Yankees red Sox. It's great. Like that's what you live for. Um,
you know, you win some, you lose some, but, uh,
the amount you can learn through that process, uh,
what I've realized in life is that there is no,
and there's always someone who has more,
there's always more challenge just at different scales. And, uh,
it sounds a, like a little Buddhist, but, um,
everything is super challenging.
Whether you're like a small business or an enormous business, I say like,
choose the game you like to play. Right.
You've got to imagine that if you're an amazing basketball player,
you enjoy to some extent practicing basketball,
it's gotta be something you love. It's going to suck. It's going to be hard.
You're gonna have injuries. Right. But you got to love it.
And the same thing with Instagram, which is, um,
we might've sold, but it was like, great. There's one super bowl title.
Can we went five? What else can we do now? I imagine you didn't ask this,
but okay. So I left, there's a little bit of like, what do you do next?
Right? Like what do you, how do you top that thing? It's the wrong question.
The question is like, when you wake up every day, what is the hardest,
most interesting thing you can go work on? Because like at the end of the day,
we all turn into dirt. It doesn't matter. Right. But what does matter is like,
can we really enjoy this life? Not in a hedonistic way, because that's,
it's like the reinforcement learning,
learning like short term for as longterm objectives.
Can you wake up everyday and truly enjoy what you're doing? Um,
knowing that it's going to be painful, knowing that like,
no matter what you choose, it's going to be painful. Um,
whether you sit on a beach or whether you manage a thousand people or 10,000,
it's going to be painful. So choose something. That's fun to have pain.
Um, but yes, there was a, there was a lot of, we have arrived and, um,
it's a maturation process. You just have to go through.
No matter how much success is, there is how much money you make.
You have to wake up the next day and choose the hard life.
Whatever that means next. That's fun. The fun slash hard life. Well hard life.
That's fun. I guess.
What I'm trying to say is slightly different,
which is just that no one realizes everything's going to be hard.
Even chilling out is hard. And then you just start worrying about stupid stuff.
Like, I don't know, like, did so-and-so forget to paint the house today?
Or like, did the gardener come or whatever, like, or, oh,
I'm so angry in my shipment,
a wine didn't show up and I'm sitting here on the beach without my wine.
I don't know. I'm making up now, but like.
It turns out that even chilling, AKA meditation is hard work. Yeah.
And at least meditation is like productive, chilling,
where you're like actually training yourself to calm down and be,
but backing up for a moment. Everything's hard.
You might as well be like playing the game. You love to play.
I just like playing and winning and, and I'm,
I'm on the, on the, I'm still on the,
I think the first half of life knock on wood. Um,
and I've got a lot of years and what am I going to do? Sit around.
And the other way of looking at this, by the way, um,
imagine you made one movie and it was great.
Would you just like stop making movies now? Generally you're like, wow.
I really like making movies. Let's make another one a lot of times, by the way,
the second one or the third one, not that great, but the fourth one. Awesome.
And no one forgets the sec or everyone forgets the second and the third one.
So there's just this constant process of like, can I produce?
And is that fun? Is that exciting? What else can I learn?
So this machine learning stuff for me has been this awesome new chapter of being
like, man, that's something I didn't understand at all.
And now I feel like I'm one 10th of the way there.
And that feels like a big mountain to climb.